
What you’re working with, a racecar at the limit, is an extremely dynamic system. At each contact patch everything is different from the other CPs and constantly changing, for instance slip angle, tread surface temp, track temp, track texture, track surface contamination, tire load, etc. That point B on your graph is dancing around like a monkey on a hot summer road.

As I look over the top of my monitor there is a photo on the wall showing Bruce McLaren in an F1 car of his design and manufacture almost at the exit of the Casino turn at Monaco from 1973. The photographer is leaning over a haybale as the car slides toward him with some opposite steering lock probably showing throttle oversteer. The right front tire is pointed right at me with a couple of degrees positive camber. The left front tire looks like it’s pointed straight ahead. Lots of toe-out? The right rear tire is pointed straight with only a little positive camber. The front tire tread is about 6 in wide, the rears 8?

Those tires operated at huge slip angles compared with F1 tires today which have a lot of aero loading. That’s why they looked like they were sliding. Those old tires were bias ply construction. Today’s tires have to survive huge lateral and vertical loads and speeds almost 250 mph. They are very stiff and operate at small slip angles. (one of the reasons F1 racing now is so boring)  Radial tires came in to racing because bias ply tires were going to slip angles such that induced drag (p 107) became a problem. Throttle oversteer out of a corner increased slip angle producing drag equal to more than 100hp. The drivers could feel it.